The 46-year-old Professional golfer, philanthropist, and author Tiger Woods is opening up about his health.

He shared an update in a news conference at the Riviera Country Club about his current status following his February 2021 car crash, which led to serious injuries.He revealed that he wouldn’t be where he is without CBD.

After Tiger Woods was involved in that car accident, He set out to find the safest, most potent form of legal medicinal cannabis product for treating a wide range of diseases, mental disorders, arthritis and conditions. After treating his diseases with CBD, He had a mission to make this miracle CBD Product available to the masses.

Tiger Woods made headlines after revealing his new CBD line on Live TV last week. Pharmaceutical companies were outraged saying they will be pressing charges against Woods and his partners for violating their contract and undercutting their prices. Tiger responded with this:

"When I started this whole thing back, it really was just a part time project and a way for me to give back to those suffering with Arthritis. Coming off of my Masters win, I figured there was no better time to make Eagle Hemp CBD Gummies available to everyone, as it can help thousands of people become pain free and much happier.”

This proven pain relief miracle is drug-free. Scientific studies from around the world have shown it treats anxiety, stress,insomnia, arthritis, chronic pain, joint aches, inflammation, depression, PTSD, and a slew of other common ailments. The amazing thing is it does all of this naturally. That means no more prescriptions, no more doctors and no more addictive and deadly opioids.

His product, Eagle Hemp CBD Gummies, has been flying off the shelves within minutes and Tiger says his number one struggle as CEO is being able to keep up with demand. His CBD wellness line is 90% cheaper and five times more effective than those being offered by GW Pharmaceuticals and other “Big Pharma” companies.

This miracle pain relief formula will take a big chunk out of the pharmaceutical industry's $446-billion profits. Profits they make at our expense. Which is why Big Pharma is fighting to ban it again.

GW Pharmaceuticals and AbbVie were furious after seeing a massive dip in their sales, calling for Woods to be indicted saying, “We’re happy Tiger Woods found something to replace diabetic drugs, opiates, and anxiety meds, but his announcement was a direct breach of contract. His sponsors should fire him immediately and he should formally apologize.“

Tiger Woods appeared on Live TV again the next day, not to apologize, but to offer viewers A huge discount.


“I’m not going to let these companies intimidate me,” Woods fired back during his appearance. “Our product, Eagle Hemp CBD Gummies, has helped me through my pain as a professional athlete, as well as already already creating a community of pain-free customers! I am so confident in it that I’m offering huge a discount to your viewers. Eagle Hemp CBD Gummies is the product of thousands of hours of research and development. I wouldn’t talk about something on air I don’t believe in and use myself.”

Tiger Wood’s words coupled with online reports of amazing results got us curious about Eagle Hemp CBD Gummies so we did some research — here’s what we found.

Is Eagle Hemp CBD Gummies Right For You?
The short answer is Yes.

Eagle Hemp CBD Gummies has been found to have a positive impact on key body functions including - neurological, physical, and psychological.

This includes but not limited to:

• Reduces Diabetic Symptoms
• Supports Joint Health
• Reduces Anxiety
• Reduces Headaches
• Reduces Blood Sugar
• Supports Mental Health
• Antioxidant Support
While making an appearance on Live TV he gifted the cast and crew with Eagle Hemp CBD Gummies products and made sure every guest was given a sample of the life changing supplement. Since then, he has cultivated a huge celebrity clientele who are regularly reordering the products. See for yourself!