Brazilian Chicken Stroganoff

Ingredients
2.2 pounds (1 kg ) boneless, skinless chicken thighs
Salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste about 1 tsp of salt and 1/2 tsp of pepper per pound of chicken
5 tablespoons olive oil divided
1 tablespoons unsalted butter
1 pound (about 450 g) fresh common white button mushrooms, cleaned and sliced
1 medium yellow onion chopped
3 garlic cloves minced
1/2 cup dry white wine
1/2 cup tomato sauce
2 cups chicken broth or stock (only 1 cup for the slow cooker or 1/2 cup for the pressure cooker)
1 tablespoon Dijon mustard
3/4 cup heavy cream sour cream, plain or Greek yogurt, or coconut milk can be substituted for the heavy cream. 
1/4 cup fresh parsley or cilantro chopped
Instructions
Pat the chicken thighs dry, cut into 2-inch cubes, and season with salt and pepper. Then follow the instruction according to the chosen cooking method below.
STOVETOP METHOD: In a large stainless steel pan, heat the 2 tablespoons of olive oil and melt 1 tablespoons butter over medium heat.  Add the mushrooms and cook until they are browned and cooked through, about 5 minutes.  Remove from heat and reserve.
Add 2 tablespoons oil and increase the heat to medium-high.  Pan-fry the cubed chicken in batches so that it is browned on all sides (about 3-5 minutes), then let rest on a plate or bowl after pan-frying. Lower the heat to medium and add 1 tablespoon of oil and the onions, cooking and stirring occasionally until they are soft (about 3 minutes). 
Add the garlic and cook until soft and fragrant, about 1 minute.  Return chicken to the pan!  Pour in the wine and let cook until it has been almost fully absorbed. Stir in both the tomato sauce and the chicken stock/broth. Cook, partially covered, over medium-low heat for 15-20 minutes.
When the chicken is cooked, remove from the heat and fold in the mushrooms, heavy cream, mustard, and parsley.  Taste and adjust the salt and pepper, if needed. Serve the Chicken Stroganoff with white rice and shoestring potatoes.  Or, as a variation, serve with egg noodles.
